Rewrite Unit 2 around a Claude Code workflow (#108)
huggingface/skills: course/units/en/unit2/skills-in-claude-code.mdx

# Skills in Claude Code

Unit 1 showed you how to install a skill. This section is about what Claude Code does with it after that.

## Where Skills Live

Claude Code can discover the same skill at a few different scopes.

### Personal

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.claude/skills/my-skill
# put SKILL.md in this directory
```

Use this when you want the skill in every project you open.

### Project-local

```bash
mkdir -p .claude/skills/my-skill
```

Use this when the skill belongs to one repository or one team workflow. These files can live in Git alongside the code they shape.

### Plugin

> 
> ```bash
> /plugin marketplace add huggingface/skills
> /plugin install gradio@huggingface/skills
> ```

Reviewer: Ran this as written and got `Plugin "gradio" not found`. The `@` suffix needs the registered marketplace name (`huggingface-skills`), and the plugin is `huggingface-gradio` per `marketplace.json`. Also adding `/reload-plugins` — after install the slash menu is cached, so `/huggingface-gradio` returns "Unknown skill" until you reload (line 76 mentions this but a student hits the error before getting there).

Same name/suffix issue is in `unit0/setup.mdx:45` and `unit1/hands-on-find-install.mdx:40,89,137,175` (`hugging-face-model-trainer` → `huggingface-llm-trainer`, etc.) — flagging here rather than spamming those files since it's the same fix pattern.

````suggestion
```bash
/plugin marketplace add huggingface/skills
/plugin install huggingface-gradio@huggingface-skills
/reload-plugins
```
````

Author: Fixed in `1d4c943`. I updated the install snippet to use the marketplace suffix that Claude actually registers (`gradio@huggingface-skills`) and added `/reload-plugins` in the same block.

I validated this in a throwaway Claude config before changing the docs: `gradio@huggingface-skills` installs successfully, while `huggingface-gradio@huggingface-skills` does not. I also fixed the same `@huggingface-skills` suffix issue in Unit 0, Unit 1, and the repo README.

> Use this when someone else maintains the skill and ships it as part of a plugin. Plugin skills are namespaced as `/plugin-name:skill-name`. For this repository, the plugin name is `huggingface-skills`, so a plugin-installed skill gets a namespaced command instead of a bare `/skill-name`.

Reviewer: Two small corrections: `huggingface-skills` is the *marketplace* name; the *plugin* here is `huggingface-gradio`. And the namespaced form is optional — current Claude Code accepts both bare `/huggingface-gradio` and `/huggingface-gradio:huggingface-gradio`.

```suggestion
Use this when someone else maintains the skill and ships it as part of a plugin. Plugin skills can be invoked with the bare name (`/huggingface-gradio`) or the namespaced form (`/plugin-name:skill-name`) if you need to disambiguate.
```

Author: I took the wording cleanup here, but not the `huggingface-gradio` rename. I checked the current marketplace behavior locally before editing: the installable identifier is still `gradio@huggingface-skills`; `huggingface-gradio@huggingface-skills` fails against the validated marketplace manifest.

I removed the incorrect marketplace/plugin-name explanation and rewrote the explicit-invocation text more generically around the slash menu / slash command path so it stays accurate without leaning on version-specific alias behavior.

> Use this when someone else maintains the skill and ships it as part of a plugin. Plugin skills are namespaced as `/plugin-name:skill-name`. For this repository, the plugin name is `huggingface-skills`, so a plugin-installed skill gets a namespaced command instead of a bare `/skill-name`.

Reviewer: When you run `/plugin install`, Claude Code prompts for a scope (Personal / Project shared / Project local) and the page doesn't say which to pick. Suggest adding right after this paragraph:

> When prompted for a scope, pick **Personal** — `huggingface-gradio` is a general-purpose skill you'll want everywhere. The starter's `hf-brand`/`brutalist` skills, by contrast, live in the project's `.claude/skills/` because they only make sense for that one app.

(One sentence is enough — a full scope breakdown would pull focus from the activation lesson.)

Author: Added in `1d4c943`. The plugin section now tells students to choose **Personal** for `gradio`, and contrasts that with the project-local style skills later in the unit.

## How Activation Works

For automatic activation, the most important line in a skill is the `description` field in its frontmatter. Claude uses that text to decide whether a skill is relevant enough to load.

That makes the difference between these two versions meaningful:

```yaml
# Won't activate — too vague
description: A helper for datasets

# Better — says when to use it
description: Create and publish datasets to the HF Hub. Use when the user mentions
  publishing a dataset, uploading training data, sharing structured Q&A pairs,
  or writing a dataset card.
```

The description is not the only frontmatter field Claude understands, but it is the main auto-activation signal. Other fields can narrow or change behavior:

- `disable-model-invocation: true` stops automatic activation and keeps the skill manual-only
- `user-invocable: false` hides it from the slash-command menu

> - `paths:` limits activation to matching files or folders

Reviewer: Worth linking the full reference here — there are several more keys (`allowed-tools`, `allowed-directories`, etc.) and the docs will stay current as the set grows.

```suggestion
- `paths:` limits activation to matching files or folders

See the [Claude Code skills reference](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills) for the full set of frontmatter fields.
```

Author: Added in two places in `1d4c943`: once near the top of the page as a general reference, and again after the frontmatter bullets where the reader is most likely to want the full key list.

That means a good description should do two jobs at once:

1. Say what the skill does
2. Say when to use it in the language a user would actually type

> ## Slash Commands vs Auto-Activation

Reviewer: Reading-order nit: this section introduces the two ways a skill enters a turn (auto vs explicit `/`), but the "How Activation Works" section above it has already dived into the mechanics of *auto* activation. Swapping them — this section first, then "How Activation Works" — gives the reader the "two routes in" model before drilling into one of them.

Author: Took this. `Slash Commands vs Auto-Activation` now comes before `How Activation Works`.

Skills can enter the conversation in two ways:

- **Automatic:** Claude matches your request to the skill description and loads it
- **Explicit:** You type `/skill-name` or `/plugin-name:skill-name` and force that skill into the turn

Automatic activation is what you want for background knowledge and recurring patterns. Explicit invocation is the fallback when you want a specific workflow right now.

## Checking What Is Available

Two commands are useful here:

- `/skills` shows the skills Claude Code can currently see
- `/reload-plugins` applies plugin installs, enables, or disables without restarting Claude Code

For file-based project skills, the simplest approach is still the simplest one: save the file, then continue working or start a fresh session if you want to remove any doubt about what Claude has loaded.

## Skills vs MCP

> Skills are instructions. MCP servers are tools. A skill teaches Claude how to do something with the tools it already has; an MCP server gives Claude a new capability, like talking to Slack or querying a database. You will often use them together, but they solve different problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skills are instructions; MCP servers provide tools. A skill tells Claude *how* to use what it already has. An MCP server gives Claude something new to use — a Slack client, a database connection, a browser. You'll often use them together: the `huggingface-gradio` skill tells Claude how to structure a Gradio app, and it needs no MCP server because writing Python files is a tool Claude already has. A skill for "post my model card to Slack" would need both — the skill for the *how*, a Slack MCP server for the *ability*.
```

Author: Took this direction. I rewrote the section around a concrete `gradio` vs Slack/MCP example so the distinction is “instructions vs new capability”, not just an abstract definition.
